# Topics to Cover

1. Implicit and Explicit Type Conversions
2. Serialization and Deserialization
3. Generating and parsing JSON
4. Making Network Requests
5. Async Operations (CompletableFuture)
6. For-Of
7. Streams
8. Comparators
9. File-IO
10. Date-Time
11. Child processes
12. Threads
13. Runnable
14. Thread Safety
15. Hashing (SHA-256, MD5, Bcrypt)
16. Encryption (AES-256, RSA-512)
17. Working with Postgres
18. Working with MongoDB

# Implicit and Explicit Type Conversions

## Implicit Coercions (Widening Conversions)

- Implicit type coercion happens automatically
- When converting a smaller data type to a larger data type.
- This is also known as widening conversion.
- It does not require explicit casting.
- Examples:
  - `byte` to `short`, `int`, `long`, `float`, or `double`
  - `short` to `int`, `long`, `float`, or `double`
  - `char` to `int`, `long`, `float`, or `double`
  - `int` to `long`, `float`, or `double`
  - `long` to `float` or `double`
  - `float` to `double`

```java
int i = 100;
long l = i; // implicit conversion from int to long
float f = i; // implicit conversion from int to float
double d = f; // implicit conversion from float to double
```

## Explicit Coercions (Narrowing Conversions)

- Explicit type coercion requires manual casting.
- Needed when converting a larger data type to a smaller data type.
- This is also known as narrowing conversion
- Result in data loss if the value is outside the range of the target type.
- Example:
  - `double` to `float`, `long`, `int`, `short`, `byte`, or `char`
  - `float` to `long`, `int`, `short`, `byte`, or `char`
  - `long` to `int`, `short`, `byte`, or `char`
  - `int` to `short`, `byte`, or `char`
  - `short` to `byte` or `char`

```java
double d = 100.04;

long l = (long) d; // explicit conversion from double to long
int i = (int) l; // explicit conversion from long to int
short s = (short) i; // explicit conversion from int to short
byte b = (byte) s; // explicit conversion from short to byte
float f = (float) d; // explicit conversion from double to float
```

# Serialization and Deserialization

# Generating and parsing JSON

# Making Network Requests

# Async Operations (CompletableFuture)

# For-Of

# Streams

# Comparators

# File-IO

# Date-Time

# Child processes

# Threads

# Runnable

# Thread Safety

# Hashing (SHA-256, MD5, Bcrypt)

# Encryption (AES-256, RSA-512)

# Working with Postgres

# Working with MongoDB
